App context macros (#2547)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/email-customization/customize-email-templates/index.md

> #### Overview of what this EA feature enables

Author: agreed! "Overview" it is

The Early Access (EA) Enhanced Email Macros feature provides you with the functionality to customize the email templates with even greater flexibility than EL. It changes the underlying email templating engine from EL variables to [Velocity Templating Language (VTL)](https://velocity.apache.org/). This allows you to customize your org's email templates so that you can use enhanced conditional logic, all of the attributes in the Okta [User Profile object](/docs/reference/api/users/#profile-object), and some of the org attributes in these macros, as documented below. All of the Okta default email templates are available for customization.

> ##### What this EA feature doesn't enable

Reviewer: What this EA feature doesn't enable -> Previous customized email templates ?

Author: thanks, that's more clear. added a sentence "Previously customized email templates will not persist." to start the paragraph.

(fyi - for GA, we will do an auto migration, so previous emails will persist, and we can then remove this section

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

#### Access to app context

Okta Identity Engine orgs have access to app context within emails using the Velocity Templating Language. When an end user enters an authentication flow, Identity Engine stores the app context in the state token. The following properties are available in the app context:

* `$app.id`
* `$app.name`
* `$app.label`

When these properties are used with conditional logic, you can trigger branding for the specified app and define strings to uniquely customize an email template based on the app from where the email was triggered. App context is not available on Classic Engine since the state token does not exist there.

#### Example of using app context to brand an email

```
#if(${app.name} == "Toys R' Fun")
<img src="https://cdn.toysrfun.com/logo" height="37">
<a id="support-link" href="https://support.toysrfun.com/help/?language=en_US" style="text-decoration: none;"> Contact Toy Support </a>

> #if(${app.name} == "Fidget Spinners Unlimited")

Reviewer 2: Should this be an `#elseif`?

Author: yes you're right

All conditional logic that is supported by the Velocity Templating Engine, such as `if`, `elseif`, or `else` constructs and `foreach` loops, is available for you to use in your templates. See the [Velocity documentation](http://velocity.apache.org/engine/1.7/user-guide.html).

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

#### Access to app context

> Okta Identity Engine orgs can now call app context within emails via Velocity Templating Language. When an end user enters an authentication flow, OIE stores that app context in the state token, which can then be called using the following app macros:

Reviewer 2: Suggest tweaking the wording just a bit:

"Okta Identity Engine orgs now have access to app context within emails using the Velocity Templating Language. When an end user enters an authentication flow, OIE stores the app context in the state token. The following properties are available on the app context:"

Author: thanks done

> Okta Identity Engine orgs have access to app context within emails using the Velocity Templating Language. When an end user enters an authentication flow, OIE stores the app context in the state token. The following properties are available on the app context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okta Identity Engine orgs have access to app context within emails using the Velocity Templating Language. When an end user enters an authentication flow, Identity Engine stores the app context in the state token. The following properties are available in the app context:
```

* `$app.id`
* `$app.name`
* `$app.label`

> When used with conditional logic, you can trigger per app branding and define strings to uniquely customize an email template based on the app your end user was using when the email was triggered. App context is not available on Classic Engine since the state token does not exist there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When these properties are used with conditional logic, you can trigger branding for the specified app and define strings to uniquely customize an email template based on the app from where the email was triggered. App context is not available on Classic Engine since the state token does not exist there.
```

> When these macros are combined with conditional logic, you can trigger per app branding, and strings to uniquely customize a single email template to dynamically change based on the app your end user visited, which triggered the email. These app macros are not available on Classic Engine due to the state token not existing.

Reviewer 2: A few more suggestions:

"When used with conditional logic, you can trigger per app branding and define strings to uniquely customize an email template based on the app your end user was using when the email was triggered. App context is not available on Classic Engine since the state token does not exist there."

Author: resolved thanks

> ### Test Custom Email Templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test custom email templates
```
